lib/spack/docs/build_systems/cudapackage.rst, before:

.. _cudapackage:

-----------
CudaPackage
-----------

Different from other packages, ``CudaPackage`` does not represent a build
system. Instead its goal is to simplify and unify usage of ``CUDA`` in other
packages.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Provided variants and dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``CudaPackage`` provides ``cuda`` variant (default to ``off``) to enable/disable
``CUDA``, and ``cuda_arch`` variant to optionally specify the architecture.
It also declares dependencies on the ``CUDA`` package ``depends_on('cuda@...')``
based on the architecture as well as specifies conflicts for certain compiler versions.

^^^^^
Usage
^^^^^

In order to use it, just add another base class to your package, for example:

.. code-block:: python

    class MyPackage(CMakePackage, CudaPackage):
        ...
        def cmake_args(self):
            spec = self.spec
            if '+cuda' in spec:
                options.append('-DWITH_CUDA=ON')
                cuda_arch = spec.variants['cuda_arch'].value
                if cuda_arch is not None:
                    options.append('-DCUDA_FLAGS=-arch=sm_{0}'.format(cuda_arch[0]))
            else:
                options.append('-DWITH_CUDA=OFF')

Commit message:

relicense: replace all LGPL license headers with short SPDX headers
- remove the old LGPL license headers from all files in Spack
- add SPDX headers to all files
  - core and most packages are (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)
  - a very small number of remaining packages are LGPL-2.1-only

lib/spack/docs/build_systems/cudapackage.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2013-2018 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
   Spack Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details.

   SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

.. _cudapackage:

-----------
CudaPackage
-----------

Different from other packages, ``CudaPackage`` does not represent a build
system. Instead its goal is to simplify and unify usage of ``CUDA`` in other
packages.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Provided variants and dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``CudaPackage`` provides ``cuda`` variant (default to ``off``) to enable/disable
``CUDA``, and ``cuda_arch`` variant to optionally specify the architecture.
It also declares dependencies on the ``CUDA`` package ``depends_on('cuda@...')``
based on the architecture as well as specifies conflicts for certain compiler versions.

^^^^^
Usage
^^^^^

In order to use it, just add another base class to your package, for example:

.. code-block:: python

    class MyPackage(CMakePackage, CudaPackage):
        ...
        def cmake_args(self):
            spec = self.spec
            if '+cuda' in spec:
                options.append('-DWITH_CUDA=ON')
                cuda_arch = spec.variants['cuda_arch'].value
                if cuda_arch is not None:
                    options.append('-DCUDA_FLAGS=-arch=sm_{0}'.format(cuda_arch[0]))
            else:
                options.append('-DWITH_CUDA=OFF')
