lib/spack/docs/docker_for_developers.rst, before:

.. _docker_for_developers:

=====================
Docker for Developers
=====================

This guide is intended for people who want to use our prepared docker
environments to work on developing Spack or working on spack packages. It is
meant to serve as the companion documentation for the :ref:`packaging-guide`.

--------
Overview
--------

To get started, all you need is the latest version of ``docker`` and
``docker-compose``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd share/spack/docker
    $ docker-compose run --rm ubuntu

This command should drop you into an interactive shell where you can run spack
within an isolated docker container running ubuntu.  The copy of spack being
used should be tied to the working copy of your cloned git repo, so any changes
you make should be immediately reflected in the running docker container.  Feel
free to add or modify any packages or to hack on spack, itself.  Your contained
copy of spack should immediately reflect all changes.

To work within a container running a different linux distro, change the "ubuntu"
argument to any one of the services listed under the ``docker-compose.yml``
file.

.. code-block:: console

    $ docker-compose config --services
    fedora
    ubuntu
    $ docker-compose run --rm fedora

Commit message:

relicense: replace all LGPL license headers with short SPDX headers
- remove the old LGPL license headers from all files in Spack
- add SPDX headers to all files
  - core and most packages are (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)
  - a very small number of remaining packages are LGPL-2.1-only

lib/spack/docs/docker_for_developers.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2013-2018 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
   Spack Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details.

   SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

.. _docker_for_developers:

=====================
Docker for Developers
=====================

This guide is intended for people who want to use our prepared docker
environments to work on developing Spack or working on spack packages. It is
meant to serve as the companion documentation for the :ref:`packaging-guide`.

--------
Overview
--------

To get started, all you need is the latest version of ``docker`` and
``docker-compose``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd share/spack/docker
    $ docker-compose run --rm ubuntu

This command should drop you into an interactive shell where you can run spack
within an isolated docker container running ubuntu.  The copy of spack being
used should be tied to the working copy of your cloned git repo, so any changes
you make should be immediately reflected in the running docker container.  Feel
free to add or modify any packages or to hack on spack, itself.  Your contained
copy of spack should immediately reflect all changes.

To work within a container running a different linux distro, change the "ubuntu"
argument to any one of the services listed under the ``docker-compose.yml``
file.

.. code-block:: console

    $ docker-compose config --services
    fedora
    ubuntu
    $ docker-compose run --rm fedora
